From hatter@sprintmail.com Mon Aug 25 17:54 PDT 1997
Received: from mailgate21 (mailgate21-hme0.a001.sprintmail.com [205.137.196.52]) by devel.diplom.org (8.8.3/8.7.3) with SMTP id RAA19125 for <dippouch@diplom.org>; Mon, 25 Aug 1997 17:54:50 -0700 (PDT)
Received: by mailgate21 (SMI-8.6/SMI-SVR4)
	id RAA11416; Mon, 25 Aug 1997 17:54:19 -0700
Received: from sdn-ts-001njclinp05.dialsprint.net(206.133.57.24) by mailfep3-hme1 via smap (KC5.24)
	id Q_10.1.1.8/Q_20846_1_3402263d; Mon Aug 25 17:41:33 1997
Message-ID: <340225A6.37A8@sprintmail.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Aug 1997 20:39:02 -0400
From: Jared Flesher <hatter@sprintmail.com>
X-Mailer: Mozilla 2.01E-SI001B01  (Win95; U)
MIME-Version: 1.0
To: dippouch@diplom.org
Subject: Re: YES!
References: <199708252251.PAA18106@devel.diplom.org>
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Length: 9450
Status: RO

dippouch@diplom.org wrote:
> 
> I just started reading your article and had to write you immediately
> to say how completely I agree with you about M:TG.  It was at World
> DipCon VI in Columbus, Ohio, that I first learned about that thing.
> And oh, what a rip-off I saw it to be!  Amazing!  And you know what
> the saddest thing was?  Here we Diplomacy players were, playing the
> best game in the world, and here were all the young gamers totally
> WASTING their time (AND MONEY!!) on M:TG!  It made me furious that
> the new gamers weren't getting exposed to Diplomacy!
> 
> Thereupon, Pitt Crandlemire (1996 World Champion, a friend of mine,
> and of course he of "Big Dipper" fame), Simon Szykman (my alter ego
> at The Pouch, and without whom I couldn't do it) and I set out to
> create a card game based on Diplomacy's mechanics and mental intrigue.
> We have done so and are now ready for market.  I thought I would mention
> this to you because if you're interested in playtesting it, we would be
> happy  to let you do so once you sign a non-disclosure agreement.
> 
> The game has been playtested many times, including in Sweden at World
> DipCon VII, and we already have a lot of retail outlets signed up to
> carry the game.  Now we just need to mass produce it.  Pitt's health
> is currently not the best (he even missed the chance to defend his North
> American Championship at DipCon XXXI in Seattle last week) so we are waiting
> for him to recover and finish up some last details.  But I thought I would
> drop you a line and mention the game to you.  Maybe you can be one of its
> first champions with the younger set.  (NO, it will NOT have "expansion sets"
> anything like M:TG!!!!)
> 
> Manus

-------

	I must say I'm very happy to hear that you agree with me on my 
article, ecspecially since it seems when it comes to internet diplomacy 
you're considered by all in the know to be "da man." Magic started off 
great, then greed ruined it like may other things.  I managed to come in 
second at my first tornament with a twenty dollars worth of cards deck. 
Now people have five hundred dollar decks.  As for the article.... 
	I hope these changes are in time, my older sister has 
unmercibily been tying up the phone line..
	I did take Dan's advice to be fair to all the players in my game 
and cut out that paragraph on the ongoing game.  It wasn't central to 
the article so it didn't matter much.  If in the future though, when the 
game is over, if you would like me to write some of my thoughts and 
strategys, I would love to.  Below I have the new draft.
	And as for the card game you mentioned, I would love to playtest 
it if the offer stands.  I've always wanted to try something like this, 
and it sounds great.  I'm not sure what a disclosure statement is, but 
if it doesn't involve me selling my soul, I'm sure it won't be a 
problem.

		Thanks Manus, and not if I stab you first,
		Jared Flesher



Any way heres the article:

Baby Steps
By Jared Flesher

       Perhaps many many articles have been written by newbies
 regarding their introduction into the world of Diplomacy.  Since I
 haven't been around long enough to find many of those articles, I
 decided to write about some of my own first impressions.
      	I may be a little unique to the hobby because of my young age.
 By the time this article is published, I will have just turned
 fifteen.  I have long liked playing games of all sorts, but always had 
trouble finding someone to play with.  Being a teenager perhaps a little 
too concerned with my image,  I never joined one of the (considered by
 outsiders to be nerdy) gaming clubs at school where I could possibly
 find someone to take on.  It was until a little thing called Magic:
 The Gathering came along that a game was considered to be something 
cool to do.
       Realizing this was my chance to shine, I became one of the
 first in my school to play.  The revised addition had just
 come out, and I bought up cards like crazy.  And for months, the game 
thrived and I loved it.  I knew what every card made was and did, and
 understood every compexity of the game.   Then Wizards of the Coast, 
the company that gave life to the game, killed it.  I suppose they 
wanted to make even more money, so they came out with some so called 
"expansion sets."
 I tried to keep up with the first one, but expansion after expansion
 came and blew me away.  Soon the game which I had understood
 completely, was foreign to me.  I quit.  And again I was a gamer  
without a game.
       After this, I forgot about games for a year, and concentrated on
 other hobbies I had.  My family always had a computer, but I never
 learned the ins and outs of it.  I sat down and started editing config
 files, and before I knew it I was hooked.  The thing that intrigued me
 the most was the Internet, as it had just become the craze.
 	I live in one of the very rural sections of New Jersey though, 
and each call to a service provider would have been a toll call.  So I 
went without.  Then one day a little package with a disk came in the 
mail announcing that Sprint was going to become a local service provider 
in my area.
       I convinced my parents to sign up for a month, and began my
 first baby steps into the land of the Internet.  At first I delved
 into the sports and teen places on the net.  It was all fascinating at
 first, but eventually I began to think that the Internet was a useless 
tool afterall.  There wasn't much except getting information that it was
 good for.  So I began to run down the category listings on Yahoo where
 maybe I could find something interesting.  When I got down to the games
 button, I clicked onto it, but didn't expect to find much.  At first I
 went to the games I knew.  I liked Risk, but their where
 never enough players around to get a good game going, plus to much
 luck was involved.  I liked Axis and Allies, but there were far to may
 pieces to worry about.  There was also a game named Diplomacy listed 
that I had heard a little about.  A game with no luck, that involved 
negotiating. Sounded good to me.
       A whole bunch of Diplomacy pages appeared when I made that
 fateful double-click.  I believe I started from the beginning, at
 Annund Rannestad?s Diplomacy Central.  I read the first few 
introductory lines and thought, "Ow great, another good game that I 
don't have enough players for."  
But then it mentioned something about play by email, and of judges set 
up all over the net to host games.  I was interested.  I delved further, 
and found strange disscusions on how to join a judge, and things looking 
like F Ank-Bla.
    That night my family took a trip to a nice little town called
 New Hope, across the Delaware River.  There was a store their called,
 "Toys for Men." It turned out not to be some X-rated store, but a
 place that sold all kinds of strategy games and such.  I went in and
 searched for Diplomacy.
       I found it, in both a deluxe and regular version.  The back of
 the box described it as a game of international intrigue.  I was
 certainly intrigued.  I decided to buy the deluxe version, even though
 it was twenty dollars more, it said it came with a lengthy rulebook
 which helped with important strategys.
       When I got home I tore open the plastic and opened the game box.
 I took everything out.  It contained a gameboard, some wood pieces,
 stickers and a rulebook.  Was this what I had just paid fifty bucks
 for? A little disappointed with the lack of stuff that came with the 
game, I dived into the rulebook.
       Almost instantly I was hooked.  Most games that claimed to
 involve lots of strategy had rules that were impossible to learn.
 Most games that claimed to be easy to play turned out to be no fun.  
But Diplomacy seemed to have it all.  Simple rules that I understood 
fully after the first reading of the rulebook.  But it also involved
 interaction with the other players, something I had always considered
 to be the thing that made a game fun.  Before Diplomacy, Risk had 
always been my favorite game.  Not that it was so
 great, but I enjoyed making treaties with other players, then taking
 over Australia anyway.  But the rules of Diplomacy blew away Risk.  No
luck, and plenty of negotaitions.
       The  next morning I got on the Internet, intent on finding out
 exactly what these play-by-email games were.  I soon discovered their
 were two types of games, ones operated by judges, and ones gmed by
 real humans.  Knowing that I would surely have lots of questions to ask
 someone, I opted for a human run game.  The first site I came across
 the ran the types of games I wanted was Cat-23.  They had an 
introductory paragraph at the top of their frontdoor page, describing 
themselves as a community of gameplayers, who play hard and fierce, but 
also had fun and got to know each other.  This was exactly what I was 
looking for.
    Here I am, a few weeks after subscribing to the Cat-23 listserver.
 I have entered a new game as Turkey, and I'm loving it.  I would like 
to thank all the people who continued this hobby
 onto the Internet, and set up places like Cat-23.  When school starts
 again, I'll still keep a low profile about my not so popular hobby, but 
now there's a place where I can have a great gaming experience of in the 
secrecy of my own home.  The Internet has created at least one new 
Diplomacy player for many years to come.

